kathy stetson shares with us a biography
of cancer in this week's books looks
if you read one book this year it should
be the emperor of all maladies by
siddhartha mukherjee
it appeared in 2010 and it describes the
simultaneous history of cancer and the
development of mukerji as a cancer
specialist
the story describes the events leading
up to the possible curing of cancer in
the last century
it started out with the belief that
chemicals could cure cancer and the
first chemicals that were used were
textile dyes
the chemicals became stronger and more
lethal to the point where they started
giving patients anemia and destroying
bone marrow
after the onslaught of chemicals
scientists began to believe that cancer
cells should be surgically excised but
they didn't just remove the cancer cells
they removed all the tissue around them
so that people had huge scars from their
cancer removal
the
thought that more was better was the
prevailing thought in the 60s and 70s
and gradually scientists came to believe
that that wasn't going to cure cancer
in the late
90s and early into this decade
they began to realize that cancer is
isolated to particular genes and
particular cells
and that each type of cancer treatment
has to be individualized to both the
person their genetic makeup and what
their cells have done
this is a story of huge egos large
companies big money and brilliant
scientists
it describes where we've been
and where we hope to go
from the needham free public library for
the needham channel news i'm kathy
stetson
you